Add 3.3.0 release note and news and update links (#396)
apache/spark-website: releases/_posts/2022-06-16-spark-release-3-3-0.md

* ANSI enhancements ([SPARK-38860](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-38860))  
* Error Message Improvements ([SPARK-38781](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-38781))
* Support complex types for Parquet vectorized reader ([SPARK-34863](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-34863))
* Hidden File Metadata Support for Spark SQL ([SPARK-37273](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37273))
* Provide a profiler for Python/Pandas UDFs ([SPARK-37443](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37443))
* Introduce Trigger.AvailableNow for running streaming queries like Trigger.Once in multiple batches ([SPARK-36533](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-36533))
* More comprehensive DS V2 push down capabilities ([SPARK-38788](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-38788))
* Executor Rolling in Kubernetes environment ([SPARK-37810](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37810))
* Support Customized Kubernetes Schedulers ( [SPARK-36057](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-36057))
* Migrating from log4j 1 to log4j 2 ([SPARK-37814](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37814))

### Spark SQL and Core

#### ANSI mode

> * New explicit cast syntax rules in ANSI mode ([SPARK-33354](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-33354))

Reviewer: I checked the JIRA and it was merged to Spark 3.1.

Author: @cloud-fan Could you leave comments in https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gGySrLGvIK8bajKdGjTI_mDqk0-YPvHmPN64YjoWfOQ/edit?usp=sharing , please.

Author: After offline discussion, let me address comments directly in the PR.

Author: The ticket is an umbrella for others that were merged to 3.3 in particular, for example:
https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37179
I have taken the umbrella only to not mention all sub-tasks.

* Elt() should return null if index is null under ANSI mode ([SPARK-38304](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-38304))
* Optionally return null result if element not exists in array/map ([SPARK-37750](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37750))
* Allow casting between numeric type and timestamp type ([SPARK-37714](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37714))
* Disable ANSI reserved keywords by default ([SPARK-37724](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37724))
* Use store assignment rules for resolving function invocation ([SPARK-37438](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37438))
* Add a config to allow casting between Datetime and Numeric ([SPARK-37179](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37179))
* Add a config to optionally enforce ANSI reserved keywords ([SPARK-37133](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37133))
* Disallow binary operations between Interval and String literal ([SPARK-36508](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-36508))

#### Feature Enhancements

> * Support ANSI SQL INTERVAL types ([SPARK-27790](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-27790))

Reviewer: I don't think this is a 3.3 feature, but we support writing out interval to data sources in 3.3

Author: This is an umbrella too in which the last sub-tasks were done in 3.3 only.

* Error Message Improvements ([SPARK-38781](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-38781))
* Hidden File Metadata Support for Spark SQL ([SPARK-37273](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37273))
* Support raw string literal ([SPARK-36371](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-36371))
* Helper class for batch Dataset.observe() ([SPARK-34806](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-34806))
* Support specify initial partition number for rebalance ([SPARK-38410](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-38410))
* Support cascade mode for `dropNamespace` API ([SPARK-37929](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37929))
* Allow store assignment and implicit cast among datetime types ([SPARK-37707](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37707))
* Collect, first and last should be deterministic aggregate functions ([SPARK-32940](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-32940))

> * Add ExpressionBuilder for functions with complex overloads ([SPARK-37164](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37164))

Reviewer: This is a refactor. Do we need to mention it in release notes? It's not user facing.

Author: ok. I'll remove it.

* Add array support to union by name ([SPARK-36546](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-36546))
* Add df.withMetadata: a syntax sugar to update the metadata of a dataframe ([SPARK-36642](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-36642))

> * Support raw string literal ([SPARK-36371](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-36371))

Reviewer: this duplicated line 66

Author: Removed the duplicate.

* Support value class in nested schema for Dataset ([SPARK-20384](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-20384))
* Add AS OF syntax support ([SPARK-37219](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37219))
* Add REPEATABLE in TABLESAMPLE to specify seed ([SPARK-37165](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37165))
* Add ansi syntax `set catalog xxx` to change the current catalog ([SPARK-36841](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-36841))
* Support ILIKE (ALL | ANY | SOME) - case insensitive LIKE ([SPARK-36674](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-36674), [SPARK-36736](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-36736), [SPARK-36778](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-36778))
* Support query stage show runtime statistics in formatted explain mode ([SPARK-38322](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-38322))
* Add spill size metrics for sort merge join ([SPARK-37726](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37726))
* Update the SQL syntax of SHOW FUNCTIONS ([SPARK-37777](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37777))

> * Implement support for DEFAULT values for columns in tables ([SPARK-38334](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-38334))

Reviewer: I think this is a 3.4 feature, cc @gengliangwang

Author: Yep, let me remove it.

    * array_intersect handles duplicated Double.NaN and Float.NaN ([SPARK-36754](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-36754))
    * Add cot as Scala and Python functions ([SPARK-36660](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-36660))

#### Performance enhancements

* Whole-stage code generation
    * Add code-gen for sort aggregate without grouping keys ([SPARK-37564](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37564))
    * Add code-gen for full outer sort merge join ([SPARK-35352](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-35352))
    * Add code-gen for full outer shuffled hash join ([SPARK-32567](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-32567))
    * Add code-gen for existence sort merge join ([SPARK-37316](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37316))
* Push down (filters)
    * Push down filters through RebalancePartitions ([SPARK-37828](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37828))
    * Push down boolean column filter ([SPARK-36644](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-36644))
    * Push down limit 1 for right side of left semi/anti join if join condition is empty ([SPARK-37917](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37917))

>     * Translate more standard aggregate functions for pushdown ([SPARK-37527](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37527))

Reviewer: We should put this in the `Data Source V2 API` section.

Author: Moved.

* Add more Not operator simplifications ([SPARK-36665](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-36665))
* Support BooleanType in UnwrapCastInBinaryComparison ([SPARK-36607](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-36607))
* Coalesce drop all expressions after the first non nullable expression ([SPARK-36359](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-36359))
* Add a logical plan visitor to propagate the distinct attributes ([SPARK-36194](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-36194))

#### Built-in Connector Enhancements

* General
    * Lenient serialization of datetime from datasource ([SPARK-38437](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-38437))
    * Treat table location as absolute when the first letter of its path is slash in create/alter table ([SPARK-38236](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-38236))
    * Remove leading zeros from empty static number type partition ([SPARK-35561](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-35561))
    * Support `ignoreCorruptFiles` and `ignoreMissingFiles` in Data Source options ([SPARK-38767](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-38767))
* Parquet

>     * Enable matching schema column names by field ids ([SPARK-38094](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-38094))

Reviewer: This is a parquet feature.

    * Remove check field name when reading/writing data in parquet ([SPARK-27442](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-27442))
    * Support vectorized read boolean values use RLE encoding with Parquet DataPage V2 ([SPARK-37864](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37864))
    * Support Parquet V2 data page encoding (DELTA_BINARY_PACKED) for the vectorized path ([SPARK-36879](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-36879))
    * Rebase timestamps in the session time zone saved in Parquet/Avro metadata ([SPARK-37705](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37705))
    * Push down group by partition column for aggregate ([SPARK-36646](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-36646))
    * Aggregate (Min/Max/Count) push down for Parquet ([SPARK-36645](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-36645))

>     * Parquet: enable matching schema columns by field id ([SPARK-38094](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-38094))

Reviewer: This duplicates line 194

Author: Removed the duplicate

* JDBC
    * Support cascade mode for JDBC V2 ([SPARK-37929](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37929))
    * Add the IMMEDIATE statement to the DB2 dialect truncate implementation ([SPARK-30062](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-30062))
    * Support aggregate functions of build-in JDBC dialect ([SPARK-37867](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37867))
    * Move compileAggregates from JDBCRDD to JdbcDialect ([SPARK-37286](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37286))
    * Implement dropIndex and listIndexes in JDBC (MySQL dialect) ([SPARK-36914](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-36914))
    * Supports list namespaces in JDBC V2 MySQL dialect ([SPARK-38054](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-38054))
    * Add factory method getConnection into JDBCDialect ([SPARK-38361](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-38361))
    * Jdbc dialect should decide which function could be pushed down ([SPARK-39162](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-39162))
    * Propagate correct JDBC properties in JDBC connector provider and add "connectionProvider" option ([SPARK-36163](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-36163))

>     * Refactor framework so as JDBC dialect could compile filter by self way ([SPARK-38432](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-38432))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Refactor framework so as JDBC dialect could compile filter by itself ([SPARK-38432](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-38432))
```

Author: Changed

    * Support Dynamic Partition pruning for HiveTableScanExec ([SPARK-36876](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-36876))
    * InsertIntoHiveDir should use data source if it's convertible ([SPARK-38215](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-38215))

#### Data Source V2 API

* New interfaces
    * Introduce a new DataSource V2 interface HasPartitionKey ([SPARK-37376](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37376))
    * Add interface SupportsPushDownV2Filters ([SPARK-36760](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-36760))
    * Support DataSource V2 CreateTempViewUsing ([SPARK-35803](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-35803))
    * Add a class to represent general aggregate functions in DS V2 ([SPARK-37789](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37789))
    * A new framework to represent catalyst expressions in DS V2 APIs ([SPARK-37960](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37960))
    * Reactor framework so as JDBC dialect could compile expression by self way ([SPARK-38196](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-38196))

>     * Refactor framework so as JDBC dialect could compile filter by self way ([SPARK-38432](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-38432))

Reviewer: are these 2 belong to the JDBC section?

Author: Moved to the JDBC section

>     * DSV2 InputMetrics are not getting update in corner case ([SPARK-37585](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37585))

Reviewer: this is a bug fix, not new interface.

Author: Removed

    * Add APIs for group-based row-level operations ([SPARK-38625](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-38625))
* Migrate commands
    * Migrate SHOW CREATE TABLE to use V2 command by default ([SPARK-37878](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37878))
    * Migrate CREATE NAMESPACE to use V2 command by default ([SPARK-37636](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37636))
    * Migrate DESCRIBE NAMESPACE to use V2 command by default ([SPARK-37150](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37150))
* Indexing
    * Support drop index for Data Source V2 ([SPARK-37200](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37200))
    * Add Create Index syntax support ([SPARK-36895](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-36895))

>     * Implement createIndex and IndexExists in DS V2 JDBC (MySQL dialect) ([SPARK-36913](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-36913))

Reviewer: does it belong to the JDBC section?

Author: Moved to the JDBC section

    * DS V2 Index Support: Add supportsIndex interface ([SPARK-36526](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-36526))
* Push down ([SPARK-38788](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-38788))
    * Add DS V2 filters ([SPARK-36556](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-36556))
    * Push down boolean column filter for Data Source V2 ([SPARK-36644](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-36644))
    * Support push down top N to JDBC data source V2 ([SPARK-37483](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37483))
    * DS V2 Sample Push Down ([SPARK-37038](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37038))
    * DS V2 LIMIT push down ([SPARK-37020](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37020))
    * DS V2 supports partial aggregate push-down `AVG` ([SPARK-37839](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37839))
    * Support datasource V2 complete aggregate pushdown ([SPARK-37644](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37644))

>     * DS V2 supports partial aggregate push-down `AVG` ([SPARK-37839](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37839))

Reviewer: it duplicates line 268

Author: Removed the duplicate.

    * If `Sum`, `Count`, `Any` accompany distinct, cannot do partial agg push down ([SPARK-38560](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-38560))
    * Translate more standard aggregate functions for pushdown ([SPARK-37527](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37527))
    * DS V2 aggregate push-down supports project with alias ([SPARK-38533](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-38533))
    * DS V2 topN push-down supports project with alias ([SPARK-38644](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-38644))
    * DS V2 Top N push-down supports order by expressions ([SPARK-39037](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-39037))
    * Datasource V2 supports partial topN push-down ([SPARK-38391](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-38391))
    * Support push down Cast to JDBC data source V2 ([SPARK-38633](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-38633))
    * If limit could pushed down and Data source only have one partition, DS V2 should not do limit again ([SPARK-38768](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-38768))

>     * Remove `Limit` from plan if complete push down limit to data source ([SPARK-38768](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-38768))

Reviewer: It duplicates the item above.

Author: Removed the duplicate.

* Fix flatMapGroupsWithState timeout in batch with data for key ([SPARK-38320](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-38320))
* Fix correctness issue on stream-stream outer join with RocksDB state store provider ([SPARK-38684](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-38684))
* Upgrade Kafka to 3.1.0 ([SPARK-36837](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-36837))
* Support Trigger.AvailableNow on Kafka data source ([SPARK-36649](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-36649))
* Optimize write path on RocksDB state store provider ([SPARK-37224](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37224))
* Introduce a new data source for providing consistent set of rows per microbatch ([SPARK-37062](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-37062))
* Use HashClusteredDistribution for stateful operators with respecting backward compatibility ([SPARK-38204](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-38204))
* Make foreachBatch streaming query stop gracefully ([SPARK-39218](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-39218))

> ### PySpark 

Reviewer: @HyukjinKwon  can you review the pyspark section?

Author: Hyukjin reviewed the original doc https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gGySrLGvIK8bajKdGjTI_mDqk0-YPvHmPN64YjoWfOQ/edit#heading=h.v5lk2k7s3ulx as far as I know.

Reviewer 2: I think Hyukjin has reviewed the PySpark section.
